Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform, uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform. That's tellerik.com/platform.
I want to take a
second to tell you about
my sponsor Ray gun. If
you want to detect and
diagnose errors and crashes in
your software and even find
problems that you didn't know
existed to improve your software
and Ray gun is likely
perfect for you. You just
add a few lines of
code your application, and in
minutes you get real time
error reports with all the
information that you need to
fix bugs fast, you can
even hook it up to
your team, chat, your bug
tracking, and any other development
workflow tools. Reagan covers all
major web and mobile programming
languages, including.net, the full Xamarin
stack JavaScript, and many more.
Go check out Ray gun
today@raygun.io. I even use it
myself on my little startup
and I really truly recommend
this product. It's a fantastic
product. Check it out. reagan@reagan.io.
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number four 89. In
this episode, Scott talks with
note sources, VP of engineering,
Kevin Stewart about enterprising, no JS.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'm here
today talking with Kevin Stewart, who
is a VP of engineering
at node source. How are
you, sir? I'm pretty good,
Scott. Thanks for having me.
Thanks for chatting with me
today. So one of the
things that I wanted to
talk about with you is
that you've got an interesting
background, not just in open
source, working on things like
node node source, but then
you started in kind of
classic commercials software at Adobe.
Yes, that's correct. I've spent
about 10 years at Adobe
prior to note source where
I worked on a variety
of things on Adobe creative
suite, things from the installers
to metadata services, as we
started to transition towards the
cloud. And then I was
lucky enough to work on
one of the initial services
of creative cloud, which was
became creative cloud assets. We
focused on basically providing a
place for all of our
customers assets to be stored
and collaborated on. And that
evolved into things like creative
cloud libraries at around that
time was when I was
approached by node source to
help them grow their business.
And I decided to make
the move. And when you
were working at Adobe, were
they already thinking about open
source and bringing open source
into the forefront? Absolutely. There
was the acquisition of companies
like phone gap, which was
one of the big catalysts
of starting to look at
how Adobe could contribute to
an open source and participate
in it. With the Apache
Cordova project. We started looking
at our own IP and
seeing are there things that
the open source community would
benefit by having Adobe donate
and participate in a more
open manner? And internally our
CTO started driving more for
a model of open source
style development, even on the
commercial products. So then it
was natural to get into,
to open source. Totally. Yeah.
We were a big consumers
of open source for probably
the last eight years at
Adobe. I pushed our team
to say let's use open
source as much as possible,
where I could work with
legal to make it happen
and contribute things back. So
it just became second nature
after a while. And what
does node source do? Cause
it's really about, it seems
to me like from looking
at the website, it's about
the enterprising of nodes. Yes.
We're trying to position ourselves
as the enterprise node company
and working to find a
balance between contributing to the
community while serving the needs
of enterprise customers. And there
isn't as much overlap with
note historically and enterprise problems,
but the enterprise has adopted
node and there are certain
types of problems, applications, technologies
that need to be addressed
to support their needs. And
that's what node source is
looking to address. So like
most open source projects, aren't
like ready for the enterprise
out of the box, right?
Enterprise has unique kind of
issues, Very unique or at
least different than say your
typical open source hacker or,
you know, the five person
team at a startup trying
to build a consumer internet
application. There are different concerns
that enterprises have. And in
typical open source fashion, you
tend to scratch your own
edge. And some of those
enterprise needs aren't itches that
the one guy in his
room coding is looking to
solve. What is it about
the enterprise that's so like
unique or why does the
enterprise think that it's unique?
Like when you say like,
you know, one guy or
one gal and they're in
their garage, they don't have
an enterprise problem because they
don't have what smart cards.
They don't have certificate stories.
They don't have a lot
of compliance issues that they
need to deal with legal
issues, international issues. So there
are so many things that
are really the area that
enterprises have to deal with
things that are just common
things like I've had to
deal with localization so many
times and telling multiple countries,
multiple currencies and multiple countries
localization versus globalization. Cause there
is a difference export exporting
SSL, like the number of
times that, you know, some
lawyers that are make sure
we're not exporting cryptography. And
then having to explain that,
well, you're not really exporting
cryptography when you're using SSL
and things like that are
not the sort of things
that most open source developers
typically have to deal with.
There's also a perception issue.
I mean, I think Joel,
Spolsky had a post years
ago about the five different
worlds of software development and
sort of made a distinction
between commercial software developers and
sort of corporate in house,
you know, line of business
developers. And there's been this
unusual and unfortunate, I believe
divide between the hipster developer,
you know, working in San
Francisco, building the next great
photo sharing app. And then,
you know, the lemming that's
in, you know, the three
piece suit, which nobody wears
anymore building yet another database
reporting application. And yet in
reality, they all have similar
problems. I mean, we're in
a cloud era where hosting
things on public clouds or
we're dealing with scaling issues.
So there's a lot more
similarities between those different worlds
of developers, but there's sort
of a cultural gap between
the two. And that's one
of the things that we're
hoping to sort of bridge
the gap a little bit,
especially in the note. Right,
right. And technology these days
are kind of standing on
the shoulders of giants and
making things that were once
difficult, much easier. And a
lot of people look at
the enterprise as like, Oh,
here's a bunch of hoops
I have to jump through.
But at the same time
they are well understood. Oops.
Yes. There is a certain
comfort in knowing that these
problems have been solved, so
we don't need to go
solve them again. And I
think that's one of the
key differentiators between enterprise development
is that there's more focus
on solving the business problem.
And not yet again, building
another app server or another
ORM, you know, we, we
have more pressing needs usually
around revenue making money. So
let's solve those problems that
assist the business as opposed
to just trying to do
the same thing in a
different way, using another language
or another framework. So as
an example, I'm not trying
to sound like a commercial,
but just as an example,
what is a tool that
node source does that no,
didn't do like what does
a need that was required
to put note into the
enterprise that you filled? So
a product in one sense,
it's just support and training
many customers look at a
particular technology and they immediately
want, you know, who's the
one throat to choke or
who do I go to
when I'm having a problem
with that? So while we
don't look at support traditionally
as a product, by packaging
up in a certain way,
you know, here's a tier
of support for just experimenting
with node and, you know,
trying it on your servers,
understanding how the technology works.
That's one level of offering.
Then as you're sort of
graduating up to a proof
of concept, a small application,
you'll probably want a little
bit more support than that,
especially if you're trying to
make a case to your
leadership team. And then finally,
when you're really running an
application in production and you
have a development team, but
you want some extra hands
to help out, help you
scale, help you solve a
particular problem. That's another offering.
So we just released and
support, which is our commercial
node support offering. A second
product that we have is
called , which is really
taking the idea of a
deterministic build of an artifact,
which would be your note
application. So in the Java
world, you have something like
a jar file or a
war file, which is your
application. And you can deploy
that as a single unit.
Well, it's all statically built.
So then there's always this
sense of the reliable, repeatable
bill. Exactly. We don't really
have that in the node
world, but there's a lot
of scenarios where that would
be very valuable. So we
built an ship to take
your note application, do some
sort of static analysis on
it, like go through all
the node modules, see if
there's any license, valid license
issues, and there's no license
for something We as an
enterprise have decided we're going
to use MIT. And then
Tim GPL snuck in there.
Exactly. That's the biggest use
case of, you know, has
any GPL snuck into the
code? Or if we say
we're all Apache, you can
set up those sorts of
rules. We check with the
node security project to see
if there are any modules
in your project that have
a known security vulnerability, flag
that and say, Hey, there's
a newer version. And we
also built an API so
that you can add your
own plugins to that system
to build whatever compliance rules
that you need before you
have a final bundle that
you can then deploy to
your environments. And the third
product is actually one that's
coming out and we're sort
of, we're sort of in
ship mode. So I can't
go into too much details
about it. Other than the
node runtime itself can be
a bit of a black
box. So you're running a
large node application in production
and all of a sudden
you're seeing memory leaks and
can't really determine where, and
I've had this problem previously
at Adobe running a node
application where our service was
just getting hammered for some
reason. And we couldn't find
out exactly what was going
on with the node portion
of it because the runtime
is just opaque. So we're
working on a way to
sort of crack that open
a little bit and get
more runtime visibility into what's
going on to your note
application and then integrate that
with other people's solutions. So
you can add it to
your dashboards and your monitoring
solutions. Okay. So if I
use new Relic or something
like that, I can plug
it in and get much
more insight into what's going
on, but when you're out
selling enterprise software and the
software that you're selling also
happens to be built on
open source. Aren't almost selling
open source as a concept,
as much as you are
selling your product. Oh yeah.
And we embrace that. A
lot of companies have sort
of turned the corner and
understand that open source is
becoming the defacto way to
build software or at least
a normal way. There's not
as much fear as there
used to be. And I
think that the growth of
cloud in one sense has
helped that the bulk of
open source software that's really
valuable to companies is tended
to be on the infrastructure
level. So people have gotten
accustomed to, you know, having
open source web servers, open
source databases, open source development
tools, and that's made it
easier to make some of
those sales. The real complication
has sort of been dealing
with these customers that have
these legacy code bases and
how do they migrate them
to a new world. And
that's where node is actually
played a huge part and
making that transformation because you
can't just rewrite your entire,
you know, financial application that's
been in Java since Java
first came out and you
have challenges like how do
I tackle mobile? I have
all these employees that are
not using desktops anymore, or
they're on their mobile phones
and our applications weren't designed
with mobile in mind. So
that's one use case where
notice played a part with
mobile web development building these
front ends that talk to
these legacy systems and support
their Mo mobile web applications,
building APIs so that you
can have native apps talking
to your backend. So Maybe
you can expand a little
bit more on the mobile
thing. So I don't quite
understand that, like if I'm
using something really old, like
let's say I'm even using
God forbid classic ASP. Yeah.
I could still produce bootstrap
HTML or I could produce
responsive design and some decent
CSS. Where does node have
a strength when it comes
to things like thinking about
mobile? No, it has a
strength in terms of people
say, if you don't have
developers with those competencies anymore,
so you might have an
old system that was done
in ColdFusion, but now you
no longer have any ColdFusion
developers and nobody wants to
touch that system. That's critical
to your business. So using
node as sort of a
proxy layer to build the
new functionality you need on
top talking to that older
system, that's still running and
then generating your mobile interface.
That is a common pattern
that we're seeing. I see.
So people are swapping out
the brains and they're like
to doing transplants, putting a
little note here and a
little note there. Well, they're
sprinkling it through and using
it to support these newer
use cases. This episode of
Hansel minutes is brought to
you by Braintree code for
easy online payments. If you're
building a mobile app and
you're searching for a simple
payment solution, check out Braintree,
the brain tree v.zero SDK
makes it easy to offer
multiple mobile payment types. So
you can start accepting PayPal,
Apple pay Bitcoin, Venmo, credit
cards, and more all with
a integration, one small snippet
of code. And you're set
up in less than 10
minutes. If you don't have
time, you can give them
a call. They'll even handle
the integration for you and
walk you through it. The
SDK supports seven languages.net node,
Java, Perl, PHP, Python, and
Ruby elegant code clear documentation
to learn more. And for
your first $50,000 in transactions
fee free, go to Braintree
payments.com/hanselman that's Braintree payments.com/hanselman. One
of the things that I
found frustrating about node, and
I wonder if it has
become a problem in, in
the enterprise space, is that
it feels just like even
a hello world or a
non trivially sized application involves,
you know, 70 or 80
or a hundred NPM modules.
So, you know, hello, world's
like 80 megs and 3000
files because of the way
NPM works. Right? And they're
the, the versions and the
closures of versions on like,
you know, this thing a
wants the version, something phase
C and then thing B
wants a different version of
see that's really overwhelming. I
mean, it's, there's no like
again, coming from a.net person's
perspective, there's no base class
library. That's correct. It's sort
of a double edged sword,
right? So one of the
benefits of node is the
fact that we have the
NPM repository and all these
modules that cover so many
different things that you can
tap into. The problem of
course, is discoverability. How do
you know which is the
best OAuth module or which
the best web framework, a
lot of them look alike.
And there are no real
sources when you start Googling
around, you might find outdated
references to things like this
was great three years ago,
but it's not great now.
So there is that problem.
That is definitely a pain
point. And it is something
that we've been thinking about.
How do we address that
node source? Because again, we
do architectural evaluations with customers
and they need guidance on
these things like prescriptions. They
absolutely want prescriptions. And that's
again, sort of a, another
differentiator between the open source
mindset and the enterprise mindset
open source guys, basically, you
want, I want to do
whatever I want to do.
Let me figure out the
best way to do things.
Then we go to enterprise
and like, tell us what
to do, tell us what
we should use. You know,
we're not the experts you
are. Yeah. I find that
very confusing in the open
source space, because it's like
if, if moment JS or
this certain time library is
the bomb, then I standardized
on it as an enterprise.
And then a few months
later, the 25 year old
that did that is decided
it's finished. I think a
lot of people have trouble
in the open source space,
understanding the difference between dead
and done. Like it's okay
for a project to be
completed. Absolutely. And you can
even see that with things
like text editors, like there
was a time people were
greatly concerned, especially in the
Mac world when text mate
wasn't being updated, it was
like, this is great text
editor, but it hasn't had
an update. And the author
was like, yeah, cause it
works. It works for me.
Why do you feel that
we have to constantly keep
churning on things. And I
do see enterprise customers getting
a little bit frustrated with
this because at some point
they want predictability. They want
stability. They want things to
sort of stay in one
place long enough that they
can actually build some confidence
around it. Whereas on the
open source side of things,
there's like constant change churn.
It's like, it's not good
enough if it stands standing
still. And you probably saw
a lot of that with
the fork of node that
occurred last year between a
node and IO JS and
neither side was right or
wrong. It's just a different
perspective. The original node community
was really into evolution, jumping
on the latest technology. Then
things sort of petered out
around zero dot 10, where
we got to a point
where node was kind of
good enough. There were still
some issues. And there was
just a philosophical difference of,
you know, joint being the
corporate sponsor of node and
dealing with some of these
enterprise needs saying, Hey, we
need to slow this down
a little bit and make
things a little bit more
solid before we do another
release and the original community
saying, but you know, we're
going, getting behind on which
version of V eight we're
on. There are all these
bugs. We want to add
promises. We want to do
this. And there was just
some tension there. So of
course a fork happened as
it does in the opensource
community, but there was still
a desire to bring node
back together and try to
find a common middle ground
that we can all work
on and say, let's get
some of the benefits of
moving faster and, you know,
keeping up to date with
certain technologies like VA, but
think about how do we
address these concerns that enterprises
have with the pace that
node is moving and how
do they know they'll get
support and how do they
know? They'll just be comfortable
knowing that their applications can
keep running on this platform.
So now that the node
reconciliation has occurred and we're
going to merge those two
code bases back together, one
of the key components is
a longterm support plan and
figuring out how do we
have LTS releases of node
that enterprise customers can say,
I know this will be
supported for the next 18
months, two years. I can
standardize on this version of
node and not have the
rug pulled out from under
me. That's a key component
of where we're going with
node and we're definitely playing
a key role in defining
that LTS roadmap. Yeah, I
think that that LTS, right,
that longterm support is one
of those great ideas that,
you know, Boone two really
jumped on and went ran
with. And it's like, we're
going to have tic talk
releases every six months. And
you're going to be able
to stay with us and
be on the cutting edge.
But then, you know, every
once in a while year
or so year and a
half, we'll give you one
that we can all just
count on. And you put
that one into production while
the rest of us mess
around on staging, Great model
and people have definitely warm
to us. So we're trying
to sort of steal great
ideas from the people who
have pioneered that and do
the same thing for note.
One of the words that
you said a couple of
paragraphs go that I want
to come back and talk
about was the notion of
confidence. And I realized, as
you were saying that that
know enterprises want confidence and
open source communities want confidence.
And the things that they
look for that inspire confidence
are absolutely diametrically opposed. I
visited a GitHub repo today
for something that has actually
been built into windows 10.
And I noticed that it
said it hadn't been touched
in two months and in
my mind I'm mentally threw
my hands up. I got
more abandoned where this thing
hasn't been touched in two
months and my, my inner
open source clock was immediately
offended. You know what I
mean? But it's the same
two months. I mean, you
know, you don't get up,
you don't get a, a
wreck or a statement of
work and two months in
the enterprise, if you're lucky.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah. It's, it
is a cultural divide change
is constant and open source
and were accustomed to that.
The differences that a lot
of people working open source,
haven't worked in enterprises. So
I've had the luxury of
working in both environments. And
I can totally understand where
these enterprise customers are coming
from when they're saying this
thing's changing every day. Oh
my gosh. You know, what
do I do? But I've
also worked on the other
side. I was like, Hey,
this project hasn't been touched
in two months, this thing's
probably got a billion bugs
in it. You know, let
me go look for something
newer that's for sure. And
probably get yourself in trouble
because it might be the
one that's more baked than
the one you should've picked
Almost without fail. That's generally,
You know, I know that
it would be an opinionated
piece of software, but if
there were a thing that
node source made that had
a confidence index or some
kind of a number that
would express whether I as
an enterprise, you know, should
put my confidence in this
piece of software, I'm going
to smile and not say
anything Good ideas have already
been thought about, see, I
have thought up an idea
and you've coded it in
your mind. And you're, you're
off developing this idea. All
I will say, there may
be a keynote document or
a PDF in the notes
or as Dropbox that might
hint at What you just
talked about. But I think
that when we talk about
prescriptions, that's really what that's
really what we need, especially
with these distributed based class
libraries. Right. But one of
the things that made Java
succeed and made dotnet succeed
early on was here's a
fully and completely designed by
committee 250 megs of system,
this and that. And one
of the things that makes
no difficult for people to
jump into is the, alright,
I want to parse some,
I don't want to parse
a date. All right, well,
you've got six options, you
know, and one of them
came out yesterday. Paradox of
choice. Exactly. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.
It's like I said, it's
the double edged sword, right?
Node very much falls the
Unix philosophy of small tools,
join together to do things
as well. And you know,
people have totally embraced that,
but there comes a point
where that actually gets in
the way. And you even
see this sort of playing
out with the whole concept
of microservices again, where people
are loving this idea of
breaking their services down into
these really tiny components and
coordinating them. And that's why
Docker is now sort of
the new thing that everybody's
talking about. But as soon
as you start doing that,
then you run into the
next level problem. I have
all these little services, what's
orchestrating them, what's coordinating them,
what's managing them. So you
get back into the almost
monolithic approach where you take
all these services. You don't
have a good plan for
orchestrating them. It becomes a
model with again. And you
know, it's really a matter
of understanding your problem and
coming up with the right
solution to do it. And
same thing with node is
they're all, are all these
modules out there, sometimes it
makes sense to use them.
Sometimes it makes sense to
write your own thing. I've
run into cases where people
are just grabbing modules off
NPM, building a solution together
and just gluing it together
is more of an effort
than if you just wrote
the code yourself to do
the one thing you needed
to do. Oh, you're saying
like literally the Googling for
the library probably took more
time than just writing the
Exactly one specific case we
had when we were at
Adobe running a node service
was we needed a particular
piece of functionality and it
turned out that there was
an existing module, but all
it did was basically run
a red jacks. And I'm
like, so we just took
on a dependency that has
a red jacks. That's now
breaking and production because it
doesn't have this one pattern
that we need inside of
it. And what are you
going to send a pull
request to get that module
updated? I'm like, why don't
you steal the red jacks
and put what we need
in and have our own
code. And I see a
lot of this copy paste
programming with NPM that's going
on. And yes, that's good
for getting up and running
pretty quickly. But if you
don't understand the implications of
taking on all these dependencies
and how it's going to
affect you downstream, it's going
to bite you. So that's
part of our approach is
not just building products, not
just trying to sell things
enterprise, but giving them that
understanding of why notice the
way it is, why there's
an asynchronous model, how NPM
works, how you build applications
using node is as important
as just how fast you
can develop with node. Yeah,
I was, I'm not in
the node side, but on
the client side, we're doing
some JavaScript with my buddy
at work, Damien Edwards. And
we wanted to do some
interesting stuff with time. As
soon as we mentioned time
on Twitter, everyone just goes,
Oh moment, JS moment JS
and Damien, who is a
pretty senior individual and a
smart individual said, Hey guys,
just hang on a second.
I want to parse one
date one time and do
one thing with it. And
you've all suggested a 100
K library that I need
to bring in. Like, let's
just settle down for a
second. That happens internally as
well. I look at a
lot of pork. I was
like, Whoa, you're pulling in
what to do what? Right.
You know? And he ended
up just parsing the string
with, you know, index of,
and I felt kind of
gross, but you know, sometimes
senior engineers need to feel
calm. Yes. More often than
not unforeseen. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.
That, that those kinds of,
of tough decisions I think
are, are, are hard to
make though, when you're still
introducing yourself into a community,
it seems like to know
which module to use is
a word of mouth. You
know, my, my friend said
it was a good module,
so I'll use It totally
is. It's a combination of
word of mouth, word of
Twitter, I guess, you know,
some Googling. But I also
know that as you come
into a community, you tend
to bring your old habits
and patterns with you. So
if you look at some
of the earliest node libraries,
there's sort of the pattern
of whatever community that developer
came from. They're trying to
recreate that in node. So
if you came from Ruby,
you're trying to create recreate
rails and node. Or if
you're coming from Python, you're
trying to recreate Django in
node. And that's, it's a
good thing to happen because
that's how people learn. You
know, you apply what you
know to this new thing,
and then you start discovering
exactly what was wrong with
your thinking or why this
thing is different. I've seen
in other communities like go,
go as very prescriptive and
structured about, you know, how
you write code, how you
use the standard library. They're
kind of anti framework because
a lot of of the
standard library is provides what
you need. And you can
see the evolution of the
libraries and frameworks and that
community change from, okay, we
got all the people from
the dynamic languages communities coming
in, building these things. Then
they took a step back.
And I think the most
famous example, there was the
author of the martini framework,
which is a Sinatra like
cloning go. And after enough
people said, Hey, this is
an idiomatic go. He stepped,
stepped back and said, you're
right. And then having that
experience of writing some go
at that point, he wrote
a new framework called Negroni
that actually matched the expectations
and patterns of that community.
And we see some similar
things to note that people
evolve, learn what the best
patterns are and then evolve
how they build their libraries
and applications. Do you think
that a lot of enterprises
that are starting out with
JavaScript and node, they're trying
to write it like it's
Java or they're trying to
drive like it's COBOL. Well,
we haven't seen the COBOL,
but definitely Java like approaches.
We haven't worked with too
many Microsoft shops to see,
but I would expect, you
know, if they were.net, I'd
see a similar pattern of
them trying to write it
like CC, I'm envisioning a
lot of what we call
arrow code. You know, if,
if, if, if, and then
unrolling all the way and
not a lot of functional
programming paradigms, There's a quite
a bit of that. Yes.
Yeah. And again, that's, it's
an education process. So we
will, you know, send people
for like a week work
with their developers, understand what
their applications are and then
teach them, you know, this
was the callback pattern in
JavaScript. You know, this is
how the event loop works.
Here's how timers work and
then help them sort of
translate their mental model of
how their system currently works
to a way that'll work
best with node and take
advantage of its capabilities. What
do you think, is it
about node that is causing
people to, you know, kind
of jump in and make
these kinds of rather naive
mistakes that you don't necessarily
see in? See, is it
because it is a dynamic
language because it's just a
text editor and a command
line that it makes it
seem like it's a wild
West. I think it's a
combination of the fact that
it is a dynamic language.
It's accessible. People are coming
from the browser world, you
know, so people understand the
web browser and being able
to write JavaScript to do
things in it. And there's
probably a lot of misconceptions.
And the biggest one I've
always heard is they, Oh,
you know, you're using node.
So you can write JavaScript
on the server and the
client. And if you're a
browser developer, you can write
service stuff. I've written enough
service stuff in my time
to tell you that, just
because you know how to
write JavaScript in the browser,
it's not the same thing
on the server. So that's
a bit of a fallacy
that's been propagated over the
years. That's a, that's a
big statement. We should pause
on that for a second,
because that may have been
one of the reasons that
people jumped into node. Like
people may be listening. They
may maybe like, wait, what?
Oh, it absolutely was. I
mean, I've heard it so
often it's just become this
thing where, Oh, you know,
I, you know, I've done
web development for years. I,
I know Java script I
can go right into. Right.
Well usually what they mean
is they know the Dom,
They know the dumb and
they know the syntax of
the language, right. They don't
necessarily understand the behavior of
the system on the server
is obviously way different than
it is in the browser.
So that's sort of the
hook that gets them in,
I mean, a crude way
of saying it's sort of
like the drug dealer model,
you know, the first hits
free, you know, little JavaScript
gets in, then you get
a little note and then
you get really wrapped into
it. But, you know, as
you progress, you you'll realize
that there are certain concerns
that you have on the
server that are fundamentally different
than they are in the
browser. And even on the
core level of node, as
we're IOT has started picking
up steam, we're seeing a
lot of the pull requests
coming in. The features that
people want to add are
very influenced by browser based
development and don't necessarily work
or could create problems for
server side development. So there
is, you know, that sort
of impedance mismatch that has
to get resolved. And I
know we have one of
the North node core developers
on our team, you know,
he's frequently, you know, trying
to push back on some
of these things saying, well,
understand why you want to
do this, you know, for
browser development. Here's why it's
going to be a problem
on the server. And let's
not rush to just go
and change this because you
will break applications that are
in production right now. And
we can't have that. So
it's definitely a real concern.
So in a, as we
close up here, I want
to ask you kind of
a trick question. Someone I
want to ask you about
microservices, because that seems to
be the hot new word
right now. And as we
are probably contemporaries, we may
have shared opinion on this.
I saw a really great
tweet where someone said, you
know, my in-process call doesn't
have enough latency. So I'm
going to, you know, use
microservices. That's a good one.
You know what I mean?
Do you think that we're
breaking things apart that don't
need to be broken apart?
I definitely think that that's
probably the norm right now.
As far as microservice go,
microservices do solve a particular
problem, but you have to
know you have that problem.
I think there's a lot
of people who are just
either saying, Hey, microservices is
the new SOA. So is
that a much more service
oriented service oriented architecture? And
microservices is a, it's a
facet of SOA. It's not
a replacement for SOA and
gone. In fact, we were
talking about this today at
lunch, you know, we need
to educate customers and developers
more about that. Like understand
the problem we're trying to
solve. And in some cases
it may be microservices. A
lot of cases, you're really
looking for SOA and that's
not microservices Well, and the
problem that you might have
in a few years may
be that you have microservices.
That might be a good
problem to have. Yeah, I
suppose. But I think the
bigger problem is that people
are always looking for the
new shiny and microservices, the
current new shiny between microservices
and Docker, you know, people
are gravitating towards it, right.
And all we're saying is,
understand your problem. And maybe
that's the solution. We're not
saying it's not, we're just
saying, let's make sure you
truly have done the work
of understanding your problem before
you get into it. Because
once you've built it, you
own it. And you're going
to have to pay the
cost of maintaining it over
time. If you're not prepared
for that, if you're not
thinking about that, then you're
just going to basically start
yet another dev cycle and
create a new problem for
yourself. So let's slow it
down where it makes sense.
Do folks a little bit
more on the design and
architecture of your solution. And
then if Microsoft services is
the way to go, great,
let's build some microservices. A
lot of cases it's just
chasing after the new shiny.
Yeah. As a, as my
dad liked To say measure
twice. Cut once. Yes. And
then of course, maybe folks
will do that with software
from note source. That is
the hope and help, happy
to help them do it.
Thank you so much. Kevin Stewart
from note source for chatting
with me today. Thank you.
Scotsman pleasure being with you.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.